But the next step is to load the template.
We have a template, in fact let's look at
the templates now that we know better what
we're dealing with.
We have a menu page template that looks
like the template for the menu page.
We have a product-item-template,
order-form-template,
details-page-template, okay,
and cart-item-template.
So we have at least details page and
menu page.
Because we're going to mix things here.
So let's start with menu page.
And just for see if this works for now,
I can add here an H2, this is the menu.
It won't look nice in my app, but
anyway, just to see something.
I can add that to the template.
So let's try to load that template first.
So I will go where?
To Components > MenuPage.js and
I will start with the constructor.
I will refactor this, okay?
So have that in mind.
So I'm going to then get
the template with the DOM API.
So from the document,
I'm going to get an element by ID,
okay, and the ID is menu-page-template.
That's the ID, right?
So that's my ID.
That's the template.
Should I go and
inject that template into my DOM?
No, because the template is unusable.
I have to clone it.
I have to create a real
instance of the template.
So to clone it,
typically we call that the content.
I don't know why, I don't like the name,
but [LAUGH] it's like the best practice.
You can say clone element or
something like that.
We take template.content.cloneNode,
and it's asking me if we
want a deep clone or not.
What is that?
If the template has inside other
elements and other templates.
If we want to clone them
all with a deep cloning,
typically it's through what we want.
And then we can append
this child to ourself,
the content, right, like so.
Again, some of you were maybe thinking,
this is too verbose, right?
Because yeah, we need to do both,
but this is OOP,
you can create your own base class.
That then your custom components
will extend from that will do all
the heavy work.
Once in the constructor for
all the other instances.
Okay, does it make sense?
So you can improve this with
more abstraction layers.
So coming back here, so if we load this
in the browser, we get an error, why?
The error says fail to
construct custom element.
The result must not have children.
He says what's that well that's a rule.
When you're constructing
an element you cannot return to
after the constructor you
cannot have children.
Okay, so
how would you solve the problem one
solution is a shadow DOM
that we will see later.
Because if it's a shadow DOM,
you will add elements to the shadow DOM,
not to yourself, so it will work.
And the other one is to implement
the connected callback.
How to do that, you just create
a method with that specific name.
Be careful writing the name,
connectedCallback.
So, and then we move that, the three
lines, to the connected callback.
Remember, connected
callback is kind of When
the component is attached to the DOM so
when we put in the DOM.
In our case it will be when
the router creates the element and
appends that to the main HTML element.
Make sense?
So now, if I'm going back,
this is what I see now.
I see this is the menu,
okay, and what is that?
Let's look at the DOM here.
We have a menu page that has a string
menu, then H2 and a section with a URL.
So this is the clone of the template.
This menu that is here is
the one from the router.
The text content that we
don't want anymore, but
it's still there anyway, okay?
So I'm going to remove those
text content because now we know
how to load the content from a template.
Okay, makes sense?
And if we apply the same thing on
on the other components, okay?
We will be ready for
seeing at least basic HTML.
It's still HTML, but it's static.
We're not rendering the data.
That's the next step.
Wait for it.
So basically we could do
something similar on the rest,
but let's first play with the DOM.
You don't need to do this
because I will change that.
I will delete that, by the way, but
let's try to see what happens
if i change the color,
let's use violet, of the h2.
We are in a template so we are expecting
this h2 to be applied, which is true.
But what happens if we
have an h2 also somewhere,
like best coffee in town.
So this h2 is completed out of the
template and out of the web components.
It's also viovet.
And it's kinda sss,
I'm not not expecting that to happen.
So to solve that problem,
we need shadow DOM, okay, shadow DOM.